<!-- Do not edit this file!                                 -->
<!-- This file is autogenerated with                        -->
<!--   tools/autotag/tag_script.py                          -->
<!-- Disable lints since this is an auto-generated file.    -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable blanks-around-headers             -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable no-duplicate-header               -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable no-blanks-blockquote              -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable ul-indent                         -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable no-trailing-spaces                -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable reference-links-images            -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable no-missing-space-atx              -->
<!-- spellcheck-disable                                     -->
# ROCm-DS 1.0.0 release notes

The release notes provide a summary of notable changes since the previous ROCm release.

- [Release highlights](#release-highlights)

- [Operating system and hardware support changes](#operating-system-and-hardware-support-changes)

- [ROCm components versioning](#rocm-components)

- [Detailed component changes](#detailed-component-changes)

- [ROCm known issues](#rocm-ds-known-issues)

- [ROCm resolved issues](#rocm-ds-resolved-issues)

- [ROCm upcoming changes](#rocm-ds-upcoming-changes)

```{note}
If you’re using Radeon™ PRO or Radeon GPUs in a workstation setting with a
display connected, continue to use ROCm 6.2.3. See the [Use ROCm on Radeon GPUs](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/radeon/en/latest/index.html)
documentation to verify compatibility and system requirements.
```
## Release highlights

The following are notable improvements in ROCm-DS 1.0.0. For changes to individual components, see
[Detailed component changes](#detailed-component-changes).

### ROCm documentation updates

ROCm documentation continues to be updated to provide clearer and more comprehensive guidance for a wider variety of user needs and use cases.

* Documentation about ROCm compatibility with deep learning frameworks has been added. These topics outline ROCm-enabled features for each deep learning framework, key ROCm libraries that can influence the capabilities, validated Docker image tags, and features supported across the available ROCm and framework versions. For more information, see:

    * [PyTorch compatibility](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/compatibility/ml-compatibility/pytorch-compatibility.html)

    * [TensorFlow compatibility](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/compatibility/ml-compatibility/tensorflow-compatibility.html)

    * [JAX compatibility](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/compatibility/ml-compatibility/jax-compatibility.html)

## Operating system and hardware support changes

ROCm-DS 6.3.2 adds support for Azure Linux 3.0 (kernel: 6.6). Azure Linux is supported only on AMD Instinct accelerators. For more information, see [Azure Linux installation](https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/install-on-linux/en/latest/install/quick-start.html).


## ROCm components

The following table lists the versions of ROCm components for ROCm 6.3.2, including any version
changes from 6.3.1 to 6.3.2. Click the component's updated version to go to a list of its changes.
Click {fab}`github` to go to the component's source code on GitHub.

<div class="pst-scrollable-table-container">
    <table id="rocm-rn-components" class="table">
        <thead>
            <tr>
                <th>Category</th>
                <th>Group</th>
                <th>Name</th>
                <th>Version</th>
                <th></th>
            </tr>
        </thead>
        <colgroup>
            <col span="1">
            <col span="1">
        </colgroup>
        <tbody class="rocm-components-libs rocm-components-ml">
            <tr>
                <th rowspan="9">Packages</th>
                <th rowspan="9">Data Science</th>
                <td><a href="https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/composable_kernel/en/docs-6.3.2/index.html">hipDF</a></td>
                <td>0.1.0&nbsp;&Rightarrow;&nbsp;<a href="##hipDF-1-0-0">1.0.0</td>
                <td><a href="https://github.com/ROCm/composable_kernel"><i class="fab fa-github fa-lg"></i></a></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><a href="https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/AMDMIGraphX/en/docs-6.3.2/index.html">hipGraph</a></td>
                <td>1.0.0</td>
                <td><a href="https://github.com/ROCm/AMDMIGraphX"><i class="fab fa-github fa-lg"></i></a></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><a href="https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/MIOpen/en/docs-6.3.2/index.html">hipMM</a></td>
                <td>1.0.0</td>
                <td><a href="https://github.com/ROCm/MIOpen"><i class="fab fa-github fa-lg"></i></a></td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><a href="https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/MIVisionX/en/docs-6.3.2/index.html">HipRAFT</a></td>
                <td>1.0.0</td>
                <td><a href="https://github.com/ROCm/MIVisionX"><i class="fab fa-github fa-lg"></i></a></td>
            </tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>
</div>

## Detailed component changes

The following sections describe key changes to ROCm-DS components.

### **hipDF** (1.0.0)

#### Added

* Tracking of Heterogeneous System Architecture (HSA) handlers:
    - Adds an atomic counter to track the outstanding HSA handlers.
    - Waits on CPU for the callbacks if the number exceeds the defined value.
* Codes to capture Architected Queueing Language (AQL) packets for HIP graph memory copy node between host and device. HIP enqueues AQL packets during graph launch.
* Control to use system pool implementation in runtime commands handling. By default, it is disabled.
* A new path to avoid `WaitAny` calls in `AsyncEventsLoop`. The new path is selected by default.
* Runtime control on decrement counter only if the event is popped. There is a new way to restore dead signals cleanup for the old path.
* A new logic in runtime to track the age of events from the kernel mode driver.

#### Optimized

* HSA callback performance. The HIP runtime creates and submits commands in the queue and interacts with HSA through a callback function. HIP waits for the CPU status from HSA to optimize the handling of events, profiling, commands, and HSA signals for higher performance.
* Runtime optimization which combines all logic of `WaitAny` in a single processing loop and avoids extra memory allocations or reference counting. The runtime won't spin on the CPU if all events are busy.
* Multi-threaded dispatches for performance improvement.
* Command submissions and processing between CPU and GPU by introducing a way to limit the software batch size.
* Switch to `std::shared_mutex` in book/keep logic in streams from multiple threads simultaneously, for performance improvement in specific customer applications.
* `std::shared_mutex` is used in memory object mapping, for performance improvement.

#### Resolved issues

* Race condition in multi-threaded producer/consumer scenario with `hipMallocFromPoolAsync`.
* Segmentation fault with `hipStreamLegacy` while using the API `hipStreamWaitEvent`.
* Usage of `hipStreamLegacy` in HIP event record.
* A soft hang in graph execution process from HIP user object. The fix handles the release of graph execution object properly considering synchronization on the device/stream. The user application now behaves the same with `hipUserObject` on both the AMD ROCm and NVIDIA CUDA platforms.

## ROCm-DS known issues

ROCm known issues are noted on {fab}`github` [GitHub](https://github.com/ROCm/ROCm/labels/Verified%20Issue). For known
issues related to individual components, review the [Detailed component changes](#detailed-component-changes).

## ROCm-DS resolved issues

The following are previously known issues resolved in this release. For resolved issues related to
individual components, review the [Detailed component changes](#detailed-component-changes).

### TransferBench packages not functional

Issue with TransferBench packages not being compiled properly has been fixed. For more information, See [GitHub issue #4081](https://github.com/ROCm/ROCm/issues/4081).

### AMD VCN instability with rocDecode

A firmware crash on gfx942 devices when AMD Video Core Next (VCN) was used for rocDecode operations has been resolved.

## ROCm-DS upcoming changes

The following changes to the ROCm software stack are anticipated for future releases.

### HIPCC Perl scripts deprecation

The HIPCC Perl scripts (`hipcc.pl` and `hipconfig.pl`) will be removed in an upcoming release.

